# Blurry Images in PDF

Chapter III-5 — Exporting Graphics (Macintosh)
III-96
Overview
This chapter discusses exporting graphics from Igor graphs, page layouts, tables, and Gizmo plots to 
another program on Macintosh. You can export graphics through the clipboard by choosing EditExport 
Graphics, or through a file, by choosing FileSave Graphics.
Igor Pro supports a number of different graphics export formats. You can usually obtain very good results 
by choosing the appropriate format, which depends on the nature of your graphics and the characteristics 
of the program to which you are exporting.
Unfortunately, experimentation is sometimes required to find the best export format for your particular cir-
cumstances. This section provides the information you need to make an informed choice.
This table shows the available graphic export formats on Macintosh:
PDF Format
PDF (Portable Document Format) is Adobe's platform-independent vector graphics format that has been 
adopted by Apple as the standard graphics format for OS X. This is the best format as long as your destina-
tion program supports it.
The Quartz PDF format is generated by the operating system while the Igor PDF format uses the Qt appli-
cation framework. For most graphics they produce similar output, but if you have an issue, it is worth 
trying both formats to see which is better. If you request CMYK color with the Igor PDF format, older Igor 
code that does not support transparency is used.
Blurry Images in PDF
When Igor exports an image plot, it exports the image as a single image object when possible. However, 
some PDF viewers, most notably Apple's, take it upon themselves to blur the pixels. To get around this, you 
Export Format
Export Method
Notes
Quartz PDF
Clipboard, file
Platform-independent and high quality, generated via the operating 
system.
LowRes PDF
Clipboard, file
Obsolete. Use Quartz PDF or Igor PDF instead.
Igor PDF
Clipboard, file
Platform-independent and high quality. Igor PDF with CMYK 
color does not support transparency.
EPS 
(Encapsulated 
Postscript)
File only
Platform-independent.
Supports high resolution.
EPS does not support transparency.
Useful only when exporting to PostScript-savvy program (e.g., Adobe 
Illustrator, Tex).
PNG 
(Portable Network 
Graphics)
Clipboard, file
Platform-independent bitmap format.
Uses lossless compression. Supports high resolution.
JPEG
Clipboard, file
Platform-independent bitmap format.
Uses lossy compression. Supports high resolution.
PNG is a better choice for scientific graphics.
TIFF
Clipboard, file
Platform-independent bitmap format.
Supports high resolution but not compression.
SVG
Clipboard, file
Platform-independent vector graphics format. As of this writing, 
few Macintosh programs support SVG.
