# Igor TeX

Chapter III-2 — Annotations
III-58
Note that escape codes are case sensitive; \u and \U insert different substrings.
Backslashes in Annotation Escape Sequences
An annotation escape code is introduced by a backslash character. Because backslash is itself an escape 
character in Igor strings, when entering an escape code in a literal string, you need to enter two backslashes 
to produce one.
For example:
TextBox/C/N=text0 "\\Z14Bigger"
The Igor command parser converts "\\" to a single backslash. The TextBox operation sees the single back-
slash and interprets \Z to mean that you want to change the font size.
The next example shows a case where you do not want a double-backslash:
TextBox/C/N=text0 "First line\rSecond line"
The Igor command parser converts "\r" to a carriage return character. The TextBox operation sees the car-
riage return character and interprets it to mean that you want to start a new line. There are no annotation 
escape codes in this example, just a regular escape code, so you must not use a double backslash.
The Add Annotation dialog generates a command to create an annotation. It knows the rules for backs-
lashes. Consequently, if you use the Add Annotation dialog to create an annotation, you can see the correct 
use of backslashes by observing the command that it generates.
Igor TeX
As of Igor Pro 8, you can use a subset of LaTeX syntax to easily insert math formulas that would otherwise 
require tedious escape codes or the insertion of a picture generated by another program. LaTeX expressions 
are delimited by "\\$WMTEX$" and "\\$/WMTEX$" as illustrated here:
Display/W=(35,45,339,154)
TextBox/C/N=TeXTest/A=MC "\Z18" + "\\$WMTEX$ \frac{3x}{2} \\$/WMTEX$"
which creates
As this example shows, you need double backslashes in the opening and closing escape sequences 
("\\$WMTEX$" and "\\$/WMTEX$"). Inside those escape sequences is TeX markup text in which double 
backslashes are not used ("\frac{3x}{2}").
In the Add Annotation and Modify Annotation dialogs, you can insert the opening and closing escape 
sequences by choosing the Igor TeX item in the Special pop-up menu. When using the dialogs, do not enter 
double backslashes as Igor does this for you as necessary.
\u
Inserts power of 10 scaling but without the leading "x" as used by \E. No action if axis 
is not scaled. Use in front of custom or compound unit strings. Example label: "Field 
Strength (\\u Volts/Meter)" will produce something like "Field Strength (106 
Volts/Meter)".
\u#1
This is a variant of \u that inserts the inverse of \u (e.g., 10-6 instead of 106).
\u#2
Prevents automatic insertion of any units or scaling. Normally, if you set a wave's 
units and scaling, using the Change Wave Scaling dialog or SetScale operation, and if 
you do not explicitly specify an axis label, Igor will automatically generate an axis 
label from the units and scaling. \u#2 provides a way to suppress this behavior when 
it gets in the way.
3x
2
