# FindDuplicates

FindDimLabel
V-240
Flags
Details
FindContour uses a contour-following algorithm to generate a pair of waves describing the locus of the 
solution to matrixWave=level.
If you omit /DSTX the output X data is written to W_XContour in the current data folder.
If you omit /DSTY the output Y data is written to W_YContour in the current data folder.
The output waves are written as double-precision floating point. They use NaNs to separate different 
contiguous solution points.
Example
Make/N=(100,200) dataWave = 1e4*gauss(x,50,10,y,100,20)
FindContour dataWave,4
// Find solution to dataWave=4
NewImage dataWave
AppendToGraph/T W_YContour vs W_XContour
See Also
AppendMatrixContour, ContourZ
FindDimLabel 
FindDimLabel(waveName, dimNumber, labelString)
Returns the index value corresponding to the label for the given dimension. Returns -1 if the label is for the 
entire dimension. Returns -2 if the label is not found.
Use dimNumber =0 for rows, 1 for columns, 2 for layers, or 3 for chunks.
See Also
GetDimLabel, SetDimLabel, CopyDimLabels
FindDuplicates
FindDuplicates [flags] srcWave
The FindDuplicates operation identifies duplicate values in a wave and optionally creates various output 
waves. srcWave can be either numeric or text.
When srcWave is numeric, the /DN, /INDX, /RN and /SN flags create output waves as described below. If 
you omit all of these flags then FindDuplicates does nothing.
When srcWave is text, the /DT, /INDX, /RT and /ST flags create output waves as described below. If you omit 
all of these flags then FindDuplicates does nothing.
The FindDuplicates operation was added in Igor Pro 7.00.
Flags
/DSTX=destX
Saves the output X data in the specified destination wave. The destination wave is 
created or overwritten if it already exists.
/DSTY=destY
Saves the output Y data in the specified destination wave. The destination wave is 
created or overwritten if it already exists.
/FREE
Creates all output waves as free waves. The /FREE flag was added in Igor Pro 8.00.
/FREE is permitted in user-defined functions only. If you use /FREE then all output 
wave parameters must be simple names, not paths or $ expressions.
See Free Waves on page IV-91 for details on free waves.
/INDX=indexWave
Creates a numeric output wave containing the index of each encountered duplicate. 
The index is the point number in srcWave where a duplicate value was encountered. 
This flag applies to both numeric and text inputs.
/Z
Do not report any errors.

FindDuplicates
V-241
Flags for Numeric Source Wave
Flags for Text Source Wave
/DN=dupsWave
Creates a numeric output wave that contains the duplicates.
/RN=dupsRemovedWave
Creates a numeric output wave that contains the source data with all duplicates 
removed.
/SN=replacement
Creates a numeric output wave with all duplicates replaced with replacement. 
replacement can be any numeric value including NaN or INF.
The output wave is W_ReplacedDuplicates in the current data folder unless you 
specify a different output wave using the /SNDS flag.
/SNDS=dupsReplacedWave
Specifies the output wave generated by /SN. If you omit /SNDS then the output wave 
created by /SN is W_ReplacedDuplicates in the current data folder. /SNDS without 
/SN has no effect.
/TOL=tolerance
Specifies the tolerance value for single-precision and double-precision numeric 
source waves.
Two values are considered duplicates if 
abs(value1-value2) <= tolerance
By default tolerance is zero.
/UN=uniqueNumbersWave
Creates a numeric output wave that contains the unique numbers in srcWave sorted 
from small to large. When srcWave contains NaN entries they are sorted as the last 
point in uniqueNumbersWave.
/UN is incompatible with /RN which maintains the order of entries in srcWave.
The /UN flag was added in Igor Pro 9.00.
/UNC=uniqueCounts
Creates a numeric output wave that contains the count of each entry in the 
uniqueNumbersWave created by the /UN flag. 
The /UNC flag was added in Igor Pro 9.00.
/CI
Performs case-insensitive text comparisons on ASCII characters only. For example, 
"A" and "a" are considered duplicates.
The /CI flag was added in Igor Pro 9.00.
/DT=dupsWave
Creates a text output wave that contains the duplicates.
/LOC
Performs locale-aware text comparisons which take case into account for both ASCII 
and non-ASCII characters. For example, the non-ASCII characters "Å" and "å" are 
considered duplicates as well as the ASCII characters "A" and "a".
/LOC is ignored unless you also include /CI.
The /LOC flag was added in Igor Pro 9.00.
/RT=dupsRemovedWave
Creates a text output wave that contains the source data with all duplicates removed.
/ST=replacementStr
Creates a text output wave with all duplicates replaced with replacementStr. 
replacementStr can be any text value including "".
The output wave is T_ReplacedDuplicates in the current data folder unless you 
specify a different output wave using the /STDS flag.
