# Encapsulated PostScript (EPS) Format

Chapter III-6 — Exporting Graphics (Windows)
III-103
EMF is easy to use because nearly all Windows programs can import it and because it can be copied to the clip-
board as well as written to a file. Some programs, notably some older versions of Microsoft Office, require that 
you choose Paste Special rather than Paste to paste an EMF from the clipboard.
Although drawing programs can decompose an EMF into its component parts to allow editing the individ-
ual objects, they often get it wrong due to the complexity of the metafile format. Some applications that 
decompose an EMF correctly are confused by the dual EMF. For such programs, you need to export a plain 
EMF by setting the graphics technology to GDI.
BMP Format
BMP is a Windows bitmap format. It is accepted by a wide variety of programs but requires a lot of memory 
and disk space because it is not compressed. A BMP is also known as a DIB (device-independent bitmap).
If the program to which you are exporting supports PNG then PNG is a better choice.
PDF Format
PDF (Portable Document Format) is Adobe's platform-independent vector graphics format. This is the best 
format as long as your destination program supports it. It is more widely supported on Macintosh than on 
Windows.
The Igor PDF format is generated by Igor's own code rather than by the OS. As of Igor Pro 9, Igor PDF sup-
ports transparency and does a better job of font embedding. However, if you request CMYK color, the older 
code is used.
When Igor exports graphics as PDF on Windows, any pictures, including PDF pictures, imported into Igor 
are exported as bitmap images.
Blurry Images in PDF
When Igor exports an image plot, it exports the image as a single image object when possible. However, 
some PDF viewers, most notably Apple's, take it upon themselves to blur the pixels. To get around this, you 
can tell Igor to draw image pixels as individual rectangles using the ModifyImage interpolate keyword 
with a value of -1. You should do this only when necessary as the resulting PDF will be much larger.
Encapsulated PostScript (EPS) Format
Encapsulated PostScript was a widely-used, platform-independent vector graphics format consisting of 
PostScript commands in plain text form. It usually gives the best quality, but it works only when printed to 
a PostScript printer or exported to a PostScript-savvy program such as Adobe Illustrator. You should use 
only PostScript fonts (e.g., Helvetica).
Encapsulated PostScript was a widely-used platform-independent vector graphics format consisting of 
PostScript commands in plain text form. EPS is largely obsolete but still in use. It usually gives good quality, 
but it works only when printed to a PostScript printer or exported to a PostScript-savvy program such as 
Adobe Illustrator. You should use only PostScript fonts such as Helvetica. EPS does not support transpar-
ency.
Prior to Igor Pro 7, Igor embedded a screen preview in EPS files. This is no longer done because the preview 
was not cross-platform and caused problems with many programs.
EPS files normally use the RGB encoding to represent color but you can also use CMYK. See Exporting 
Colors on page III-105 for details.
Igor Pro exports EPS files using PostScript language level 2. This allows much better fill patterns when 
printing and also allows Adobe Illustrator to properly import Igor’s fill patterns. For backwards compati-
bility with old printers, you can force Igor to use level 1 by specifying /PLL=1 with the SavePICT operation.
If the graph or page layout that you are exporting as EPS contains a non-EPS picture imported from another 
program, Igor exports the picture as an image incorporated in the output EPS file.
