# Special User Variables

Chapter II-7 — Numeric and String Variables
II-103
Prior to Igor Pro 8.00, variable names were limited to 31 bytes. If you use long variable names, your exper-
iments will require Igor Pro 8.00 or later.
Variable names must be standard names, not liberal names. See Object Names on page III-501 for details.
Variable names must not conflict with the names of other Igor objects, functions or operations.
You can rename a variable using the Rename operation, or the Rename Objects dialog via the Misc menu.
System Variables
System variables are built in to Igor. They are mainly provided for compatibility with older versions of Igor 
and are not recommended for general use. You can see a list of system variables and their values by choos-
ing the Object Status item in the Misc menu.
There are 20 system variables named K0,K1...K19 and one named veclen. The K variables are used by the 
curve fitting operations.
System variables can be used only from the normal "main thread", not from premptive theads. For more 
about preemptive threads, see ThreadSafe Functions and Multitasking on page IV-329 and Thread Data 
Environment on page IV-330.
The veclen variable is present for compatibility reasons. In previous versions of Igor, it contained the default 
number of points for waves created by the Make operation. This is no longer the case. Make will always create 
waves with 128 points unless you explicitly specify otherwise using the /N=(<number of points>) flag.
Although the CurveFit operation stores results in the K variables, it does so only for compatibility reasons 
and it also creates user variables and waves to store the same results.
However, the CurveFit operation does use system variables for the purpose of setting up initial parameter 
guesses if you specify manual guess mode. You can also use a wave for this purpose if you use the 
kwCWave keyword. See the CurveFit operation on page V-124.
It is best to not rely on system variables unless necessary. Since Igor writes to them at various times, they 
may change when you don’t expect it.
The Data Browser does not display system variables.
System variables are stored on disk as single precision values so that they can be read by older versions of 
Igor. Thus, you should store values that you want to keep indefinitely in your own global variables.
User Variables 
You can create your own global variables by using the Variable/G (see Numeric Variables on page II-104) 
and String/G operations (see String Variables on page II-105). Variables that you create are called “user 
variables” whether they be numeric or string. You can browse the global user variables by choosing the Object 
Status item in the Misc menu. You can also use the Data Browser window (Data menu) to view your variables.
Global user variables are mainly used to contain persistent settings used by your procedures.
Special User Variables 
In the course of some operations, Igor automatically creates special user variables. For example, the Curve-
Fit operation creates the user variable V_chisq and others to store various results generated by the curve 
fit. The names of these variables always start with the characters “V_” for numeric variables or “S_” for 
string variables. The meaning of these variables is documented along with the operations that generate 
them in Chapter V-1, Igor Reference.
In addition, Igor sometimes checks for V_ variables that you can create to modify the default operation of 
certain routines. For example, if you create a variable with the name V_FitOptions, Igor will use that to
