# LoadWave

LoadWave
V-508
See Also
See Pictures on page III-509 for general information on how Igor handles pictures.
The ImageLoad operation for loading PICT and other image file types into waves, and the PICTInfo function.
LoadWave 
LoadWave [flags] [fileNameStr]
The LoadWave operation loads data from the named Igor binary, Igor text, delimited text, fixed field text, 
or general text file into waves. LoadWave can load 1D and 2D data from delimited text, fixed field text and 
general text files, or data of any dimensionality from Igor binary and Igor text files.
Parameters
The file to be loaded is specified by fileNameStr and /P=pathName where pathName is the name of an Igor 
symbolic path. fileNameStr can be a full path to the file, in which case /P is not needed, a partial path relative 
to the folder associated with pathName, or the name of a file in the folder associated with pathName. If 
LoadWave can not determine the location of the file from fileNameStr and pathName, it displays a dialog 
allowing you to specify the file.
If you use a full or partial path for fileNameStr, see Path Separators on page III-451 for details on forming 
the path.
If fileNameStr is “Clipboard” and /P=pathName is omitted, LoadWave takes its data from the Clipboard 
rather than from a file. This is not implemented for binary loads.
If fileNameStr is omitted or is “”, or if the /I flag is used, LoadWave presents an Open File dialog from which 
you can choose the file to load.
Flags
HEIGHT
Height of the picture in pixels.
PHYSWIDTH
Physical width of the picture in points.
PHYSHEIGHT
Physical height of the picture in points.
/A
“Auto-name and go” option (used with /G, /F or /J).
This skips the dialog in which you normally enter wave names. Instead it 
automatically assigns names of the form wave0, wave1, choosing names that are not 
already in use. When used with /W, it reads wave names from the file instead of 
automatically assigning names and /A just skips the wave name dialog. The /B flag 
can also override names specified by /A.
See LoadWave Generation of Wave Names on page II-142 for further discussion.
/A=baseName
Same as /A but it automatically assigns wave names of the form baseName0, 
baseName1.
/B=columnInfoStr
Specifies the name, format, numeric type, and field width for columns in the file. See 
Specifying Characteristics of Individual Columns on page II-145 for details.
/C
This is used in experiment recreation commands generated by Igor to force 
experiment recreation to continue if an error occurs in loading a wave.
/D
Creates double precision waves. (Used with /G, /F or /J.) The /B flag can override the 
numeric precision specified by the /D flag.
/E=editCmd
Keyword
Information Following Keyword
Controls table creation:
editCmd=1:
Makes a new table containing the loaded waves.
editCmd=2:
Appends the loaded waves to the top table. If no table exists, a 
new table is created.
editCmd=0:
Same as if /E had not been specified (loaded waves are not put 
in any table).

LoadWave
V-509
/ENCG=textEncoding
/ENCG={textEncoding, tecOptions}
Specifies the text encoding of the plain text file being loaded.
This flag was added in Igor Pro 7.00.
This flag is ignored when loading an Igor binary wave file.
See Text Encoding Names and Codes on page III-490 for a list of accepted values for 
textEncoding.
For most purposes the default value for tecOptions, 3, is fine and you can use 
/ENCG=textEncoding instead of /ENCG={textEncoding, tecOptions}.
tecOptions is an optional bitwise parameter that controls text encoding conversion. See 
Setting Bit Parameters on page IV-12 for details about bit settings.
See LoadWave Text Encoding Issues on page II-149 for further discussion.
/F={numColumns, defaultFieldWidth, flags}
Indicates that the file uses the fixed field file format. Most FORTRAN programs 
generate files in this format.
numColumns is the number of columns of data in the file.
defaultFieldWidth is the default number of bytes in each column. If the columns do not 
all have the same number of bytes, you need to use the /B flag to provide more 
information to LoadWave.
All other bits are reserved and must be cleared.
/G
Indicates that the file uses the general text format.
tecOptions is defined as follows:
Bit 0:
If cleared, the presence of null bytes causes LoadWave to consider the 
text invalid in all byte-oriented text encodings. This makes it easier 
for LoadWave to identify UTF-16 and UTF-32 text which usually 
contains null bytes.
If set (default), null bytes are allowed in byte-oriented text encodings.
Bit 1:
If cleared LoadWave does not validate text if the specified text 
encoding is UTF-8.
If set (default), LoadWave validates text even if the text encoding is 
UTF-8.
Bit 2:
If cleared (default) LoadWave validates the text in the specified text 
encoding except that validation for UTF-8 is skipped if bit 1 is cleared.
If set, LoadWave assumes that the text is valid in the specified text 
encoding and does not validate it. Setting this bit makes LoadWave 
slightly faster but it is usually inconsequential.
Bit 3:
If cleared (default), LoadWave presents the Choose Text Encoding 
dialog if the specified text encoding is not valid for the text in the file.
If set, LoadWave does not present the Choose Text Encoding dialog 
if the text is not valid in the specified text encoding and instead 
returns an error. Set this bit if you are running an automated 
procedure and do not want it interrupted by a dialog.
flags is a bitwise parameter that controls the conversion of text to values. The bits 
are defined as follows:
Bit 0 :
If set, any field that consists entirely of the digit “9” is taken to 
be blank. A field that consists entirely of the digit “9” except for 
a leading “+” or “-” is also taken to be blank.

LoadWave
V-510
/H
Loads the wave into the current experiment and severs the connection between the 
wave and the file. When the experiment is saved, the wave copy will be saved as part 
of the experiment. For a packed experiment this means it is saved in the packed 
experiment file. For an unpacked experiment this means it is saved in the 
experiment's home folder.
See Sharing Versus Copying Igor Binary Wave Files on page II-156.
/I
Forces LoadWave to display an Open File dialog even if the file is fully specified via 
/P and fileNameStr.
/J
Indicates that the file uses the delimited text format.
/K=k
/L={nameLine, firstLine, numLines, firstColumn, numColumns}
Affects loading delimited text, fixed field text, and general text files only (/J, /F or /G). 
/L is accepted no matter what the load type but is ignored for Igor binary and Igor text 
loads. Line and column numbers start from 0.
nameLine is the number of the line containing column names. For general text loads, 0 
means auto. See Loading General Text Files on page II-138 for details.
firstLine is the number of the first line to load into a wave. For general text loads, 0 
means auto. See Loading General Text Files on page II-138 for details.
numLines is the number of lines that should be treated as data. 0 means auto which 
loads until the end of the file or until the end of the block of data in general text files. 
The numLines parameter can also be used to make loading very large files more 
efficient. See Loading Very Large Files on page II-150 for details.
firstColumn is the number of the first column to load into a wave. This is useful for 
skipping columns.
numColumns is the number of columns to load into a wave. 0 means auto, which loads 
all columns.
/M
Loads data as matrix wave. If /M is used then it ignores the /W flag (read wave names) 
and follows the /U flags instead.
The wave is autonamed unless you provide a specific wave name using the /B flag.
The type of the wave (numeric or text) is determined by an assessment of the type of 
the first loaded column unless you override this using the /K flag or the /B flag.
See The Load Waves Dialog for Delimited Text — 2D on page II-133 for further 
information.
/N
Same as /A except that, instead of choosing names that are not in use, it overwrites 
existing waves.
See LoadWave Generation of Wave Names on page II-142 for further discussion.
Controls how to determine whether a column in the file is numeric or text (only for 
delimited text and fixed field text files).
This flag as well as the ability to load text data into text waves were added in Igor 
Pro 3.0. The default for the LoadWave operation is /K=1, meaning that it will treat 
all columns as numeric. We did this so that existing procedures would behave the 
same in Igor Pro 3.0 as before. Use /K=0 when you want to load text columns into 
text waves. /K=2 may have use in a text-processing application.
For finer control, the /B flag specifies the format of each column in the file 
individually.
k=0:
Deduces the nature of the column automatically.
k=1:
Treats all columns as numeric.
k=2:
Treats all columns as text.

LoadWave
V-511
/N=baseName
Same as /N except that it automatically assigns wave names of the form baseName0, 
baseName1.
/NAME={namePrefix, nameSuffix, nameOptions}
The /NAME flag overrides or combines with the other flags (/A, /N, /W, and /B) that 
affect the names of waves loaded by LoadWave.
/NAME was added in Igor Pro 9.00. It applies to Load General Text (/G), Load 
Delimited Text (/J), and Load Fixed Field Text (/F), not when loading Igor binary files 
or Igor Text files.
The /NAME flag is primarily intended to provide an easy way to incorporate the file 
name in the wave names. For example, if you are loading a single wave from a file 
named File.txt, you can create a single wave named File and, if you are loading three 
waves from a file named File.txt, you can create three waves named File0, File1, and 
File2.
namePrefix is "" or text to be prepended to the final wave names.
nameSuffix is "" or text to be appended to the final wave names.
If both namePrefix and nameSuffix are "", it is as if the /NAME flag was omitted 
altogether.
In the construction of the final wave names, LoadWave replaces ":filename:" in 
namePrefix or nameSuffix with the name of the file being loaded without the file name 
extension.
See Setting Bit Parameters on page IV-12 for details about bit settings.
See LoadWave Generation of Wave Names on page II-142 for further discussion.
/O
Overwrite existing waves in case of a name conflict.
/P=pathName
Specifies the folder to look in for fileNameStr. pathName is the name of an existing 
symbolic path.
/Q
Suppresses the normal messages in the history area.
/R={languageName, yearFormat, monthFormat, dayOfMonthFormat, dayOfWeekFormat, layoutStr, pivotYear}
Specifies a custom date format for dates in the file. If the /R flag is used, it overrides 
the date setting that is part of the /V flag.
nameOptions is a bitwise parameter. The bits are defined as follows:
Bit 0:
Include normal name. If set, the "normal" wave name (the name that 
would be used if /NAME were omitted) is included in the final name 
between namePrefix and nameSuffix.
Bit 1:
Include normal name. If set, the "normal" wave name (the name that 
would be used if /NAME were omitted) is included in the final name 
between namePrefix and nameSuffix.
Bit 2:
Include suffix number when loading multiple waves. If multiple 
waves, a suffix number is appended unless suppressed by bit 3.
Bit 3:
Include suffix number only if there is a name conflict. If set and there 
are no name conflicts, this overrides bits 1 and 2 and prevents 
appending suffix numbers.
Bit 4:
Choose suffix number to create unique names. If set, LoadWave 
chooses suffix numbers to avoid conflicts with existing waves. If 
cleared suffix numbers start from 0 and increment by one for each 
loaded wave.
Bit 5:
Allow liberal names (not recommended).

LoadWave
V-512
languageName controls the language used for the alphabetic date components, 
namely the month and the day-of-week. languageName is one of the following:
Default means the system language on Macintosh or the user default language on 
Windows.
Default
Chinese
ChineseSimplified
Danish
Dutch
English
Finnish
French
German
Italian
Japanese
Korean
Norwegian
Portuguese
Russian
Spanish
Swedish
yearFormat is one of the following codes:
1:
Two digit year.
2:
Four digit year.
monthFormat is one of the following codes:
1:
Numeric, no leading zero.
2:
Numeric with leading zero.
3:
Abbreviated alphabetic (e.g., Jan).
4:
Full alphabetic (e.g., January).
dayOfMonthFormat is one of the following codes:
1:
Numeric, no leading zero.
2:
Numeric with leading zero.
dayOfWeekFormat is one of the following codes:
1:
Abbreviated alphabetic (e.g., Mon).
2:
Full alphabetic (e.g., Monday).
layoutStr describes which components appear in the date in what order and what 
separators are used. layoutStr is constructed as follows (but with no line break):
where <component keyword> is one of the following:
and <separator> is a string of zero to 15 bytes.
"<component keyword><separator>
<component keyword><separator>
<component keyword><separator>
<component keyword>"
Year
Month
DayOfMonth
DayOfWeek

LoadWave
V-513
Starting from the end, parts of the layout string must be omitted if they are not used.
Extraneous spaces are not allowed in layoutStr. Each separator must be no longer than 
15 bytes. No component can be used more than once. Some components may be used 
zero times.
pivotYear determines how LoadWave interprets two-digit years. If the year is 
specified using two digits, yy, and is less than pivotYear then the date is assumed to 
be 20yy. If the two digit year is greater than or equal to pivotYear then the year is 
assumed to be 19yy. pivotYear must be between 4 and 40.
See Loading Custom Date Formats on page II-144 for further discussion of date 
formats.
/T
Indicates that the file uses the Igor text format.
Although LoadWave is generally thread-safe, it is not thread-safe to load an Igor text 
file containing an Igor command (e.g., "X <command>").
/U={readRowLabels, rowPositionAction, readColLabels, colPositionAction}
These parameters affect loading a matrix (/M) from a delimited text (/J) or a fixed field 
text (/F) file. They are accepted no matter what the load type is but are ignored when 
they don’t apply.
If readRowLabels is nonzero, it reads the first column of data in the file as the row labels 
for the matrix wave.
The readColLabels and colPositionAction parameters have analogous meanings. The 
prefix used for the column position wave is “CP_”.
See Chapter II-9, Importing and Exporting Data for further details.
/V={delimsStr, skipCharsStr, numConversionFlags, loadFlags}
These parameters affect loading delimited text (/J) and fixed field text (/F) data and 
column names. They do not affect loading general text (/G). They are accepted no 
matter what the load type is but are ignored when they don’t apply. These parameters 
should rarely be needed.
delimsStr is a string expression containing the characters that should act as delimiters 
for delimited file loads. (When loading data as general text, the delimiters are always 
tab, comma and space.) The default is “\t,” for tab and comma. You can specify the 
space character as a delimiter, but it is always given the lowest priority behind any 
other delimiters contained in delimsStr. The low priority means that if a line of text 
contains any other delimiter besides the space character, then that delimiter is used 
rather than the space character.
skipCharsStr is a string expression containing characters that should always be treated 
as garbage and skipped when they appear before a number. The default is “$” for 
space and dollar sign. This parameter should rarely be needed.
rowPositionAction has one of the following values:
0:
The file has no row position column.
1:
Uses the row position column to set the row scaling of the matrix 
wave.
2:
Creates a 1D wave containing the values in the row position column. 
The name of the 1D wave will be the same as the matrix wave but 
with the prefix “RP_”.

LoadWave
V-514
Details
Without the /G, /F, /J, or /T flags, LoadWave loads Igor binary wave files.
If you use /P=pathName, note that it is the name of an Igor symbolic path, created via NewPath. It is not a 
file system path like “hd:Folder1:” or “C:\\Folder1\\”. See Symbolic Paths on page II-22 for details.
When loading a general text file, the delimiters are always tab, comma and space.
/W
Looks for wave names in a file. (With /G, /F, and /J.)
LoadWave cleans up column names to create standard, not liberal, wave names. See 
Object Names on page III-501 and CleanupName for details.
Use /W/A to read wave names from the file and then continue the load without 
displaying the normal wave name dialog.
See LoadWave Generation of Wave Names on page II-142 for further discussion.
numConversionFlags is a bitwise parameter that controls the conversion of text to 
numbers. The bits are defined as follows:
All other bits are reserved and must be cleared. 
See Setting Bit Parameters on page IV-12 for details about bit settings.
If the /R flag is used to specify the date format, this overrides the setting of bit 0.
Bit 0:
If set: dates are dd/mm/yy.
If cleared: dates are mm/dd/yy.
Bit 1:
If set: decimal character is comma.
If cleared: it is period.
Bit 2:
If set: thousands separators in numbers are ignored when loading 
delimited text only (LoadWave/J).
The thousands separator is the comma in 1,234 or, if comma is the 
decimal character, the dot in 1.234.
Most numeric data files do not use thousands separators and 
searching for them slows loading down so this bit should usually be 
0.
This bit has no effect if the thousands separator (e.g., comma) is also 
a delimiter character as specified by delimsStr.
loadFlags is a bitwise parameter that controls the overall load. The bits are defined 
as follows:
Bit 0:
If set, ignores blanks at the end of a column. This is appropriate if the 
file contains columns of unequal length. Set loadFlags = 1 to set bit 0.
Bit 1:
If set, when the /W flag is specified and the line containing column 
labels starts with one or more space characters, the spaces are taken 
to be a blank column name. The resulting column will be named 
Blank. Use this if both the line containing column labels and the lines 
containing data start with leading spaces in a space-delimited file. Set 
loadFlags = 2 to set bit 1.
Bit 2:
If set: Disables pre-counting of lines of data. See Loading Very Large 
Files on page II-150.
Bit 3:
If set: Disables unescaping of backslash characters in text columns. 
See Escape Sequences on page II-150 below.
Bit 4:
If set: Disables support for quoted strings.
Setting this bit improves compatibility with Igor7. It applies to 
delimited text only and should rarely be needed. See Quoted Strings 
in Delimited Text Files on page II-135 and Delimited Text 
Compatibility With Igor7 on page II-136 for background 
information.
