# ModifyContour

ModifyBrowser
V-600
ModifyBrowser
ModifyBrowser [/M] [keyword = value [, keyword = value …]]
The ModifyBrowser operation modifies the state of the Data Browser according to the specified keywords.
Documentation for the ModifyBrowser operation is available in the Igor online help files only. In Igor, 
execute:
DisplayHelpTopic "ModifyBrowser"
ModifyCamera 
ModifyCamera [flags] [keywords]
The ModifyCamera operation modifies the properties of a camera window.
Documentation for the ModifyCamera operation is available in the Igor online help files only. In Igor, 
execute:
DisplayHelpTopic "ModifyCamera"
ModifyContour 
ModifyContour [/W=winName]contourInstanceName, keyword=value 
[, keyword=value…]
The ModifyContour operation modifies the number, Z value and appearance of the contour level traces 
associated with contourInstanceName.
contourInstanceName is a name derived from the name of the wave that provides the Z data values. It is 
usually just the name of the wave, but may have #1, #2, etc. added to it in the unlikely event that the same 
Z wave is contoured more than once in the same graph.
contourInstanceName can also take the form of a null name and instance number to affect the instanceth 
contour plot. That is,
ModifyContour ''#1
modifies the appearance of the second contour plot in the top graph, no matter what the contour plot names 
are. Note: Two single quotes, not a double quote.
The number of contour level traces and their Z values are set by the autoLevels, manLevels, and moreLevels 
keywords, described in the Parameters section. Normally, you will use either autoLevels or manLevels, and 
then optionally generate additional levels using moreLevels.
Parameters
Each parameter has the syntax
keyword = value
and is applied to all of the contour level traces associated with contourInstanceName.
To modify an individual contour level trace, use ModifyGraph.
allocationFactor=factor
In rare situations that usually involve spatial degeneracy, the Voronoi 
interpolation algorithm may need additional memory. You can use the 
allocationFactor keyword with an integer factor greater than 1 to increase the 
memory allocation.
allocationFactor was added in Igor Pro 9.00.
autoLevels= {minLevel, maxLevel, numLevels}

ModifyContour
V-601
Controls automatic determination of contour levels.
If numLevels is zero, no automatic levels are generated. If it is nonzero, it specifies 
the desired number of automatic contour levels.
minLevel specifies the minimum contour level and maxLevel specifies the 
maximum contour level. The values that you specify are an approximate guide 
for Igor to use in determining the actual levels.
However, if minLevel or maxLevel is * (asterisk symbol), Igor uses the minimum or 
maximum value of the Z data for the corresponding contour level.
Using the autoLevels keyword cancels the effect of any previous autoLevels or 
manLevels keyword.
When you first append a contour plot to a graph, default contour levels are 
generated by the default setting autoLevels={*,*,11}.
boundary=b
cIndexFill= matrixWave Sets contour fills to use a color index wave when automatic fill is on (see the fill 
keyword).
cIndexFill works the same as the cIndexLines keyword which controls the colors 
of the contour level traces.
See Contour Fills on page II-373 for more information.
cIndexFill was added in Igor Pro 7.00.
cIndexLines= matrixWave
Sets the Z value mapping mode such that contour line colors are determined by 
doing a lookup in the specified matrix wave.
matrixWave is a 3 column wave that contains red, green, and blue values from 0 
to 65535. (The matrix can actually have more than three columns. Any extra 
columns are ignored.)
The color for a the contour line at Z=z is determined by finding the RGB values in 
the row of matrixWave whose scaled X index is z. In other words, the red value is 
matrixWave(z)[0], the green value is matrixWave(z)[1] and the blue value is 
matrixWave(z)[2].
If matrixWave has default X scaling, where the scaled X index equals the point 
number, then row 0 contains the color for Z=0, row 1 contains the color for Z=1, 
etc.
If you use cIndexLines, you must not use ctabLines or rgbLines in the same 
command.
cTabFill= {zMin, zMax, ctName, mode}
Sets contour fills to use a color table when automatic fill is on (see the fill 
keyword).
cTabFill works the same as the ctabLines keyword which controls the colors of the 
contour level traces.
See Contour Fills on page II-373 for more information.
cTabFill was added in Igor Pro 7.00.
Draws an outline around the XY domain of the contour data. For a matrix, this 
draws a rectangle showing the minimum and maximum X and Y values. For 
XYZ triples, the outline is a polygon enclosing the outside edges of the 
Delaunay Triangulation. Like the contour lines, the boundary is drawn using 
a graph trace, whose name is usually something like 
“contourInstanceName = boundary”.
b=0:
Hides the data boundary (default).
b=1:
Shows the data boundary.

ModifyContour
V-602
ctabLines={zMin, zMax, ctName, mode}
Sets the Z value mapping mode such that contour line colors are determined by 
doing a lookup in the specified color table. zMin is mapped to the first color in the 
color table. zMax is mapped to the last color. Z values between the min and max 
are linearly mapped to the colors between the first and last in the color table.
You can enter * (an asterisk) for zMin and zMax, which uses the minimum and 
maximum Z values of the data. The default is {*,*,Rainbow}.
Set parameter mode to 1 to reverse the color table; zero or missing does not reverse 
the color table.
ctName can be any color table name returned by the CTabList function, such as 
Grays or Rainbow (see Image Color Tables on page II-392) or the name of a 3 
column or 4 column color table wave (see Color Table Waves on page II-399).
A color table wave name supplied to ctabLines must not be the name of a built-
in color table (see CTabList). A 3 column or 4 column color table wave must have 
values that range between 0 and 65535. Column 0 is red, 1 is green, and 2 is blue. 
In column 3 a value of 65535 is opaque, and 0 is fully transparent.
If you use ctabLines, you must not use cIndexLines or rgbLines in the same 
command.
equalVoronoiDistances=e
fill=f
See Contour Fills on page II-373 for more information.
fill was added in Igor Pro 7.00.
Normally the x range and y range of the data are each normalized to a 0-1 
range separately to generate the Voronoi triangulation. Voronoi triangulation 
is a distance-based ("nearest neighbor") algorithm that may benefit from 
scaling the X and Y ranges together to avoid numerical problems that occur 
when the triangles become very thin because of widely differing x and y 
ranges.
The equalVoronoiDistances keyword is allowed only for XYZ contour plots.
e=0:
The x and y ranges are scaled individually to the 0-1 range 
(default).
e=1:
The x and y ranges are scaled so that that maximum range of 
x or y is scaled to the 0-1 range, and the other is proportionally 
smaller. For example, if yMax-yMin = 1000 and xMax-xMin = 
5, then the y range is scaled to 0-1 and the y range is scaled to 
5/1000 = 0 - 0.005.
Controls the automatic filling of contour levels.
f=0:
Turns automatic fill off. Default.
f=1:
Turns automatic fill on.

ModifyContour
V-603
interpolate=i
XYZ contours can be interpolated to increase the apparent resolution, resulting in 
smoother contour lines.
The interpolate parameter can be up to 8. Each time you increase i by one, you 
quadruple the apparent resolution and get smoother contour lines at the expense 
of computation time. Values of i greater than two are impractical because of the 
computation time required.
labelBkg=(r,g,b[,a])
Sets the background color for all contour level labels to the specified color. r, g, b, 
and a specify the color and optional opacity as RGBA Values.
labelBkg=b
labelDigits=d
d is the number of digits after the decimal point when using labelFormat=3 or 
labelFormat=5.
labelFont=fontName
Default; specifies the font to use for contour level labels. If you pass "" for 
fontName, it will use the graph font (set via the Modify Graph dialog) for contour 
labels.
labelFormat=l
labelFSize=s
Specifies the font size of contour labels in points. For example, use labelSize=12 
for 12 point type. The default value is 0, which chooses the size automatically 
based on the size of the graph.
labelFStyle=n
This keyword is allowed only for XYZ contours, created by 
AppendXYZContour.
i=0:
Linear interpolation (default). This means that only the original 
Delaunay triangulation generates contour lines.
i=1:
Four times the resolution generates a smoother set of contour lines. 
As expected, this takes longer than Linear interpolation.
i=2:
Sixteen times the resolution generates a much smoother set of 
contour lines. This is rather slow.
Controls the background color of contour labels.
b=0:
Uses each label’s individual background color, as set via the Modify 
Annotation dialog.
b=1:
Makes all contour level labels transparent.
b=2:
Uses the plot area background color as the label background color 
(default).
b=3
Uses the window background color as the label background color.
Controls the formatting of contour labels. See the printf operation for a 
discussion of formatting.
l=0:
Uses general format that is suitable for most data. This is equivalent 
to "%<sigDigits>g".
l=1:
Uses integer format, equivalent to "%<sigDigits>d". This rounds 
fractional values.
l=3:
Uses fixed point format, equivalent to "%<decimalDigits>f".
l=5
Uses exponential format, equivalent to "%<decimalDigits>e".
n is a bitwise parameter with each bit controlling one aspect of the font style 
for the contour level labels. The default is 0, plain text.
See Setting Bit Parameters on page IV-12 for details about bit settings.
Bit 0:
Bold
Bit 1:
Italic
Bit 2:
Underline
Bit 4:
Strikethrough

ModifyContour
V-604
labelHV=hv
labelRGB=(r,g,b[,a])
Sets the text color for all contour level labels. r, g, b, and a specify the color and 
optional opacity as RGBA Values. The default is opaque black.
labels=l
labelSigDigits=d
d is the number of significant digits when labelFormat=0 is used.
logLines= 1 or 0
0 sets the default linearly-spaced contour line colors.
1 turns on logarithmically-spaced line colors. This requires that the contour levels 
values be greater than 0 to display correctly.
Affects line color only when the cIndexLines or ctabLines parameter is used.
logLines does not affect the contour levels. To assign logarithmically-spaced 
contour levels, use the moreLevels parameter and disable autoLevels, for 
example:
ModifyContour ''#0, autoLevels={*,*,0} // No auto levels
ModifyContour ''#0, moreLevels=0
ModifyContour ''#0, moreLevels={1e-07,1e-06,1e-05,1e-04}
manLevels= {firstLevel, increment, numLevels}
Explicitly specifies contour levels. ModifyContour will generate numLevels 
contour levels, evenly spaced starting from firstLevel and stepping by increment.
manLevels cancels the effect of any previous manLevels or autoLevels settings.
manLevels= manLevelsWave
Specifies the contour label orientation.
If hv is 3, 4, 5, or 6, the contour label's text rotates whenever it is redrawn, 
usually when the underlying contour data changes, the graph is resized, or the 
label is reattached to a new contour trace point.
hv=0:
Horizontal contour level labels.
hv=1:
Vertical contour level labels.
hv=2:
Horizontal or vertical contour level labels, depending on the slope 
of the contour line.
hv=3:
Tangent to the contour line.
hv=4:
Tangent to the contour line, snaps to vertical or horizontal if 
within 2 degrees of vertical or horizontal (default).
hv=5:
Perpendicular to the contour line.
hv=6:
Perpendicular to the contour line, snaps to vertical or horizontal 
if within 2 degrees of vertical or horizontal.
Controls the display of contour labels.
l=0:
Hides contour level labels.
l=1:
Leaves any contour level labels in place but stops updating them 
and stops generation of new labels.
l=2:
Generates or updates labels for the existing contour levels and 
window size when the command executes, but disables further 
updating of labels when window size or contour plot changes. 
This is the recommended setting if updating the labels takes long 
enough to annoy you.
l=3:
Default; generates labels for all contour levels whenever the 
contoured data changes but not when the window size changes. 
If you resize the graph, the labels may overlap or be too sparse.
l=4:
Generates labels for all contour levels whenever the contoured 
data, contour levels, axis range, or the graph size changes. 
(Actually, there are too many causes to list here. If all this update 
annoys you, use labels=2 “update once, now”.)

ModifyContour
V-605
Explicitly specifies contour levels. ModifyContour will generate contour levels at 
the values in manLevelsWave.
manLevels cancels the effect of any previous manLevels or autoLevels settings.
moreLevels= {level, level …}
Explicitly specifies contour levels. ModifyContour will generate a contour trace 
for each of the listed levels. The maximum number of levels that you can specify 
in a single command is the 50. However, you can concatenate any number of 
ModifyContour moreLevels commands. moreLevels adds levels in addition to 
any specified by manLevels or autoLevels. It does not override other parameters.
moreLevels=0: Removes all levels generated by previous moreLevels settings.
nullValue=zValue
This keyword only affects the behavior of the ContourZ function. It is allowed 
only for XYZ contours, created by AppendXYZContour.
By default, ContourZ treats data outside the domain of the contour as NaN and 
so returns NaN if you ask for a contour value outside that domain.
The nullValue keyword allows you to change the default behavior to make 
ContourZ treat values outside the domain as the specified zValue.
nullValueAuto
This keyword only affects the behavior of the ContourZ function. It is allowed 
only for XYZ contours, created by AppendXYZContour.
nullValueAuto acts like nullValue=zValue with zValue automatically set to the 
minimum value in the Z wave minus 1.
See the nullValue keyword for details.
To turn nullValueAuto off and return the contour to the default state, execute:
ModifyContour <contourInstanceName>, nullValue=NaN
perturbation=p
rgbFill=(r,g,b[,a])
Specifies red, green, and blue values for all contour fills. r, g, b, and a specify the 
color and optional opacity as RGBA Values.
If you use rgbFill, you must not use cIndexFill or ctabFill in the same command.
rgbLines=(r,g,b[,a])
Specifies red, green, and blue values for all contour lines. r, g, b, and a specify the 
color and optional opacity as RGBA Values.
If you use rgbLines, you must not use cIndexLines or ctabLines in the same 
command.
triangulation=t
Draws the Delaunay Triangulation. As part of the XYZ contouring algorithm, the 
XY domain is subdivided into triangles in a process called Delaunay 
Triangulation. Like the contour lines, the triangulation is drawn using a graph 
trace, whose name is usually something like “contourInstanceName 
=triangulation”.
Enable or disable perturbation (alteration) of the x and y values by a miniscule 
amount to improve the natural neighbor triangulation of XYZ contours.
You can observe the perturbed x/y coordinates in the triangulation trace 
added by ModifyContour triangulation=1.
The perturbation keyword is allowed only for XYZ contour plots.
p=0:
Disables perturbation, preserving the original x and y values 
unchanged.
p=1:
Enables x/y perturbation (default). The values are shifted by random 
values less than +/-0.000005 times the x and y domain extents.
The triangulation keyword is allowed only for XYZ contours, created by 
AppendXYZContour.
t=0:
Hides the Delaunay triangulation (default).
t=1:
Shows the Delaunay triangulation.
