# Importing Data

Chapter II-9 — Importing and Exporting Data
II-126
Importing Data
Most Igor users create waves by loading data from a file created by another program. The process of loading 
a file creates new waves and then stores data from the file in them. Optionally, you can overwrite existing 
waves instead of creating new ones. The waves can be numeric or text and of dimension 1 through 4.
Igor provides a number of different routines for loading data files. There is no single file format for numeric 
or text data that all programs can read and write.
There are two broad classes of files used for data interchange: text files and binary files. Text files are usually used 
to exchange data between programs. Although they are called text files, they may contain numeric data, text data 
or both. In any case, the data is encoded as plain text that you can read in a text editor. Binary files usually contain 
data that is efficiently encoded in a way that is unique to a single program and can not be viewed in a text editor.
The closest thing to a universally accepted format for data interchange is the “delimited text” format. This 
consists of rows and columns of numeric or text data with the rows separated by carriage return characters 
(CR - Macintosh), linefeed return characters (LF - Unix), or carriage return/linefeed (CRLF - Windows) and 
the columns separated by tabs or commas. The tab or comma is called the “delimiter character”. The CR, 
LF, or CRLF characters are called the “terminator”. Igor can read delimited text files written by most pro-
grams.
FORTRAN programs usually create fixed field text files in which a fixed number of bytes is used for each 
column of data with spaces as padding between columns. The Load Fixed Field Text routine is designed to 
read these files.
Text files are convenient because you can create, inspect or edit them with any text editor. In Igor, you can 
use a notebook window for this purpose. If you have data in a text file that has an unusual format, you may 
need to manually edit it before Igor can load it.
Text files generated by scientific instruments or custom programs often have “header” information, usually 
at the start of the file. The header is not part of the block of data but contains information associated with 
it. Igor’s text loading routines are designed to load the block of data, not the header. The Load General Text 
routine can usually automatically skip the header. The Load Delimited Text and Load Fixed Field Text rou-
tines needs to be told where the block of data starts if it is not at the start of the file.
An advanced user could write an Igor procedure to read and parse information in the header using the 
Open, FReadLine, StrSearch, sscanf and Close operations as well as Igor’s string manipulation capabilities. 
Igor includes an example experiment named Load File Demo which illustrates this.
If you will be working on a Macintosh, and loading data from files on a PC, or vice-versa, you should look 
at File System Issues on page III-450.
The following table lists the data loading routines available in Igor and their salient features.
File Type
Description
Delimited text 
Created by spreadsheets, database programs, data acquisition programs, text editors, 
custom programs. This is the most commonly used format for exchanging data between 
programs.
Row Format: <data><delimiter><data><terminator>
Contains one block of data with any number of rows and columns. A row of column 
labels is optional.
Can load numeric, text, date, time, and date/time columns.
Can load columns into 1D waves or blocks into 2D waves.
Columns may be equal or unequal in length.
See Loading Delimited Text Files on page II-129.

Chapter II-9 — Importing and Exporting Data
II-127
Fixed field text 
Created by FORTRAN programs.
Row Format: <data><padding><data><padding><terminator>
Contains one block of data with any number of rows and columns.
Each column consists of a fixed number of bytes including any space characters which 
are used for padding.
Can load numeric, text, date, time and date/time columns.
Can load columns into 1D waves or blocks into 2D waves.
Columns are usually equal in length but do not have to be.
See Loading Fixed Field Text Files on page II-137.
General text 
Created by spreadsheets, database programs, data acquisition programs, text editors, 
custom programs.
Row Format: <number><white space><number><terminator>
Contains one or more blocks of numbers with any number of rows and columns. A row 
of column labels is optional.
Can not handle columns containing non-numeric text, dates and times.
Can load columns into 1D waves or blocks into 2D waves.
Columns must be equal in length.
Igor’s Load General Text routine has the ability to automatically skip nonnumeric 
header text.
See Loading General Text Files on page II-138.
Igor Text 
Created by Igor, custom programs. Used mostly as a means to feed data and commands 
from custom programs into Igor.
Format: See Igor Text File Format on page II-151.
Can load numeric and text data.
Can load data into waves of dimension 1 through 4.
Contains one or more wave blocks with any number of waves and rows.
Consists of special Igor keywords, numbers and Igor commands.
See Loading Igor Text Files on page II-150.
Igor Binary 
Created by Igor, custom programs. Used by Igor to store wave data.
Each file contains data for one Igor wave of dimension 1 through 4.
Format: See Igor Technical Note #003, “Igor Binary Format”.
See Loading Igor Binary Data on page II-154.
Image 
Created by a wide variety of programs.
Format: Always binary. Varies according to file type.
Can load JPEG, PNG, TIFF, BMP, Sun Raster graphics files.
Can load data into matrix waves, including TIFF image stacks.
See Loading Image Files on page II-157.
General binary
General binary files are binary files created by other programs. If you understand the 
binary file format, it is possible to load the data into Igor.
See Loading General Binary Files on page II-166.
File Type
Description
