# Function and Data Tab

Chapter III-8 — Curve Fitting
III-214
Global Controls
The controls at the bottom of the dialog are always available:
If you click the Commands radio button, Igor displays the commands generated by the dialog instead of 
the equation.
Function and Data Tab
The Function and Data tab has a variety of appearances depending on the function chosen in the Function 
menu. Here is what it looks like when the built-in sin function is chosen:
Function menu: The main purpose is to choose a function to fit.
The menu also has two items that control what functions are displayed in the menu.
Choose Show Multivariate functions to include functions of more than one independent variable.
Choose Show Old-Style Functions to display functions that lack the FitFunc keyword. See User-Defined 
Fitting Functions on page III-250 for details on the FitFunc keyword. You may need to choose this item if 
you have fitting functions from a version of Igor Pro older than version 4.
Some of the fit functions require additional information that is collected by customized items that appear 
when you select the function.

Chapter III-8 — Curve Fitting
III-215
Polynomial Terms: Appears when you choose the poly function to fit a polynomial. Note that the number 
of terms is one greater than the degree — set this to three for a quadratic polynomial.
Set Constant X0: Appears when you select the exp_XOffset , dblexp_XOffset or poly_XOffset function. X0 
is a constant subtracted from the X values to move the X range for fitting closer to zero. This eliminates 
numerical problems that arise when evaluating exponentials over X ranges even moderately far from zero. 
Setting X0 to Auto causes it to be set to the minimum X value in your input data. Setting to a number over-
rides this default behavior.
Expected Points/Cycle: Appears when you choose the sin function. Use it to set the approximate number 
of data points in one cycle of the sin function. Helps the automatic initial guess come up with good guesses. 
If it is set to less than four, Igor will use the default of seven.
2D Polynomial Order: Appears when you choose the Poly2D function to fit a two-dimensional polynomial 
(a multivariate function — only appears in the menu when you have chosen Show Multivariate Functions). 
Sets the order of the polynomial, not the number of terms. Because a given order includes a term for X and 
a term for Y plus cross terms, the number of terms is (N+1)(N+2)/2 where N is the order.
New Fit Function: Click this button to bring up a dialog in which you can define your own fitting function.
Edit Fit Function: This button is available when you have chosen a user-defined function from the Function 
menu. Brings up a dialog in which you can edit your user-defined function.
Y Data: Select a wave containing the dependent variable data to fit. When a multivariate function is chosen 
in the Function menu, the Y Data menu shows1D waves and waves with dimensions matching the number 
of independent variables used by the function.
X Data: This area changes depending on the function and Y Data wave chosen.
With a univariate function, just the X data menu is shown. Choose _calculated_ if you have just a Y wave; 
the X values will come from the Y wave’s X scaling. The X Data menu shows only waves with the same 
number of points as the Y wave.
When a multivariate function and a 1D Y wave are selected, it adds a list box below the X wave menu. You 
must select one X wave for each independent variable used by the fit function, or a single multicolumn wave 
with the correct number of columns. As you select X waves, they are added to the list. The order of waves in 
the list is important — it determines which is identified with each of the function’s independent variables.
Remove waves from the list by highlighting a wave and pressing Delete (Macintosh) or Backspace (Windows).
With a multivariate function and a multidimensional Y wave selected, it displays four independent vari-
able wave menus, one for each dimension that a wave can have. Each menu displays waves of length 
matching the corresponding dimension of the Y Data wave. Choose “_calculated_” if the independent vari-
able values will come from the Y wave’s dimension scaling.
From Target: When From Target is selected, the Y Data and X Data menus show only waves that are dis-
played in the top table or graph. Makes it easier to find waves in the menus when you are working on an 
experiment with many waves. When you click the From Target checkbox, it will attempt to select appropri-
ate waves for the X and Y data.
